>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JUNE 10:
VIOLENCE IN AFGHANISTAN CLAIMS
THE LIVES OF AMERICAN SOLDIERS.
ALL EYES MAY HAVE BEEN ON JAMES
COMEY THIS WEEK, BUT WHAT ELSE
HAPPENED IN WASHINGTON?
AND, HOW EFFECTIVE IS POLITICAL
PROTEST IN THE DIGITAL AGE?
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
OFFICIALS IN AFGHANISTAN SAY
THREE U.S. SOLDIERS WERE KILLED
AND ANOTHER WOUNDED TODAY BY AN
AFGHAN ARMY COMMANDO WHO
INTENTIONALLY FIRED ON THEM.
THE ATTACKER WAS THEN SHOT AND
KILLED IN RETURN FIRE.
THE SO-CALLED "INSIDER ATTACK"
ON THE AMERICANS OCCURRED IN
EASTERN NANGARHAR PROVINCE,
SOUTH OF JALALABAD AND NEAR THE
BORDER WITH PAKISTAN.
A SIMILAR ATTACK IN MARCH, IN
SOUTHERN AFGHANISTAN'S HELMAND
PROVINCE, WOUNDED THREE U.S.
SOLDIERS.
THE TALIBAN HAS CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR TODAY'S
ATTACK.
A WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN SAID
PRESIDENT TRUMP, WHO SPENT THE
DAY AT HIS GOLF CLUB IN NEW
JERSEY, WAS FOLLOWING THE
SITUATION.
THE PRESIDENT IS IN THE PROCESS
OF CONSIDERING A PENTAGON
REQUEST TO SEND ANOTHER 5,000
AMERICAN TROOPS TO
AFGHANISTAN.
THEY WOULD JOIN THE 8,400
SOLDIERS STILL DEPLOYED THERE TO
BOLSTER THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT
AND ARMY AGAINST THE TALIBAN,
WHICH THE U.S. MILITARY SAYS
CONTROLS 40% OF THE COUNTRY.
IN A SEPARATE "FRIENDLY FIRE"
INCIDENT TODAY, A U.S. AIRSTRIKE
AGAINST THE TALIBAN IN HELMAND
PROVINCE MISTAKENLY KILLED THREE
AFGHAN POLICE OFFICERS AND
WOUNDED TWO OTHERS.
BRITISH POLICE SAY THE THREE
TERRORISTS WHO CARRIED OUT LAST
SATURDAY NIGHT'S ATTACK ON
LONDON BRIDGE AND A NEARBY
MARKET INTENDED TO RENT A TRUCK
MUCH LARGER THAN THE VAN THEY
USED AS A WEAPON AGAINST
PEDESTRIANS.
POLICE SAID TODAY THE TRIO
RESORTED TO A VAN AFTER THEIR
PAYMENT FOR TRUCK WAS DECLINED
AND DROVE TWO PRACTICE RUNS
BEFORE SPEEDING INTO PEDESTRIANS
AND KILLING THREE OF THEM.
INSIDE THE VAN, POLICE SAID
THEY FOUND 13 EXPLOSIVE MOLOTOV
COCKTAILS, WINE BOTTLES FILLED
WITH GASOLINE AND STUFFED WITH
RAGS.
THE ATTACKERS LEFT THEM BEHIND
WHEN THEY WENT ON THEIR STABBING
SPREE WITH 12-INCH CERAMIC
KNIVES, KILLING FIVE MORE
PEOPLE.
TODAY, POLICE ARRESTED TWO MORE
SUSPECTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE
INVESTIGATION.
SEVEN REMAIN IN CUSTODY.
MEANWHILE, THE TWO CHIEFS OF
STAFF TO PRIME MINISTER THERESA
MAY QUIT TODAY, FOLLOWING
THURSDAY'S ELECTION THAT SAW HER
CONSERVATIVE PARTY LOSE ITS
MAJORITY OF SEATS IN PARLIAMENT.
IN THIS COUNTRY, ANTI-MUSLIM
ACTIVISTS STAGED WHAT TURNED OUT
TO BE RELATIVELY SMALL
DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST "SHARIA,"
OR STRICT ISLAMIC LAW, IN CITIES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY TODAY.
THE SO-CALLED "MARCH AGAINST
SHARIA" WAS ORGANIZED BY "ACT
FOR AMERICA," WHICH THE SOUTHERN
POVERTY LAW CENTER DESCRIBES AS
AN ANTI-MUSLIM HATE GROUP.
THE GROUP ARGUES SHARIA LAW IS
SUBVERTING AMERICAN LAW AND
DEMOCRACY AND HAS BOASTED THAT
IT HAS ACCESS TO THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION.
IN SEATTLE, AUSTIN, HARRISBURG,
AND NEW YORK CITY, EQUAL OR
GREATER NUMBERS OF COUNTER-
DEMONSTRATORS SHOWED UP WITH
POLICE ON HAND TO KEEP THE
GROUPS APART.
THE U.S. NAVY'S 16th VESSEL TO
BE NAMED AFTER A WOMAN HONORS
FORMER ARIZONA CONGRESSWOMAN
GABBY GIFFORDS.
THE 420-FOOT "U.S.S. GABRIELLE
GIFFORDS" WAS COMMISSIONED TODAY
IN GALVESTON, TEXAS.
GIFFORDS WAS ON HAND FOR THE
CEREMONY WITH HER HUSBAND,
RETIRED NAVAL OFFICER AND
ASTRONAUT MARK KELLY.
THE NAVY SAID IT WANTED TO HONOR
HER FOR HER PERSEVERANCE AFTER
BEING SHOT IN THE HEAD IN A MASS
SHOOTING THAT KILLED SIX PEOPLE
IN TUCSON SIX YEARS AGO.
THE FIRST PUBLIC TESTIMONY OF
FORMER F.B.I. DIRECTOR JIM COMEY
SINCE HIS FIRING BY PRESIDENT
TRUMP CAPTURED THE CAPITOL'S
ATTENTION THIS WEEK, BUT THERE
WERE OTHER SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENTS ON THE HILL OUTSIDE
THAT SPOTLIGHT.
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JEFF GREENFIELD
JOINS ME FROM SANTA BARBARA,
CALIFORNIA, TO DISCUSS THAT.
SO, WHAT DID WE MISS?
>> WELL, THE ENTIRE POLITICAL
UNIVERSE WAS FOCUSED ON THE
COMEY TESTIMONY.
UP ON CAPITOL HILL, IN THE
SENATE, MAJORITY LEADER MITCH
McCONNELL TOOK THE REPUBLICAN
REPEAL AND REPLACE OBAMACARE
BILL AND PUT IT ON A SO-CALLED
FAST TRACK.
THAT MEANS IT CAN GO RIGHT TO
THE FLOOR OF THE SENATE WITH NO
COMMITTEE MEETINGS, NO HEARINGS,
VIRTUALLY NO DEBATE, AND IT
WOULD TAKE 50 VOTES TO PASS IT.
THERE WERE SOME CONCESSIONS TO
MODERATES.
IT'S NOT CLEAR THE MOST
CONSERVATIVE OF SENATORS WILL
SIGN ON, BUT IT REPRESENTS A
SIGNIFICANT STEP IN THAT
DIRECTION.
ON THE OTHER SIDE, THE HOUSE
PASSED SIGNIFICANT CUTBACKS OF
THE DODD-FRANK BILL.
THAT'S LEGISLATION THAT PUTS
SIGNIFICANT CAPS ON WHAT BIG
BANKS CAN DO IN THE WAKE OF THE
FINANCIAL MELTDOWN IN 2008.
WHAT IT INDICATES IS THAT THE
REPUBLICAN MAJORITIES IN THE
HOUSE AND SENATE ARE DETERMINED
TO PRESS AHEAD WITH THE CORE
REPUBLICAN AGENDA ON MATTERS
RANGING FROM FINANCIAL
REGULATION TO THE ROLE OF HEALTH
IN THE GOVERNMENT AND BEYOND.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE A
PATTERN HERE ON HOW THEY ARE
GOING TO PURSUE THIS AGENDA?
>> WELL, I THINK THE PATTERN
EXTENDS BEYOND CAPITOL HILL, AND
IT INDICATES WHY SOME
CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS WHO
MIGHT HAVE A LOT OF PROBLEMS
WITH TRUMP'S BEHAVIOR ARE NOT
GOING TO BE THAT WILLING TO STEP
AWAY FROM HIM.
THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH HAS DONE
ALL KINDS OF REGULATORY CHANGES.
THEY'VE GRANTED A LOT OF
EXEMPTIONS TO THE ENERGY
INDUSTRY, TO FOR-PROFIT
COLLEGES.
THEY'VE APPOINTED INTO POSITIONS
OF GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVES
FROM VARIOUS INTEREST GROUPS AND
HAVE GIVEN THEM EXEMPTIONS FROM
CONFLICT OF INTEREST RULES.
THEY'VE CLEARLY APPOINTED SOME--
OR ARE TRYING TO APPOINT STAUNCH
CONSERVATIVES TO THE FEDERAL
BENCH.
AND THAT SUGGESTS THAT FOR
CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS
LOOKING AT TRUMP, THERE'S A
THOUGHT THAT, WELL, HE MAY HAVE
PROBLEMS, BUT HE SEEMS TO BE
PURSUING WHAT WE CONSERVATIVES
HAVE WANTED THE GOVERNMENT TO DO
FOR SOME TIME, WHICH IS WHY I
THINK THAT THEY WILL BE LESS
INCLINED THAN OTHERWISE TO TAKE
SIDES AGAINST HIM IN, SAY, A
FIGHT WITH THE FORMER DIRECTOR
OF THE F.B.I.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHERE DOES
THIS LEAVE THE PRESIDENT THEN?
ON THURSDAY, WE HEARD BASICALLY
JIM COMEY SAY THAT THE PRESIDENT
IN SOME WAYS LIED, AND THEN
FRIDAY WE EXPLICITLY HEARD THE
PRESIDENT REFUTE THAT.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK IN
THE SHORT RUN-- AND WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT THIS BEFORE-- THE WHOLE
IMPEACHMENT IDEA IS A
NONSTARTER.
WE DON'T HAVE A LOT OF HISTORY
ABOUT IMPEACHMENT, BUT ONE THING
IS-- AS LONG AS THE PRESIDENT
RETAINS THE SUPPORT OF HIS OR
HER PARTY, REMOVAL FROM OFFICE
IS ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE.
BUT WHEN THE PRESIDENT SAID
PUBLICLY HE'D BE WILLING TO
TAKE-- TO TESTIFY UNDER OATH
BEFORE SPECIAL COUNSEL MUELLER,
HE MAY HAVE BOUGHT HIMSELF A
WORLD OF TROUBLE BECAUSE ONCE
YOU TESTIFY UNDER OATH, ANYTHING
YOU SAY THAT'S FALSE CAN BE USED
AS EITHER A SOURCE OF A CRIMINAL
INDICTMENT OR, IN THE CASE OF A
PRESIDENT, IMPEACHMENT.
AND UNDER THOSE CIRCUMSTANCES,
YOU WOULD SEE CONGRESSIONAL
REPUBLICANS, PARTICULARLY FROM
THOSE IN THE SWING DISTRICTS,
BEGIN TO MOVE AWAY FROM HIM.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS, RIGHT
NOW, WHATEVER HIS OVERALL POLL
NUMBERS ARE, HE IS HUGELY
POPULAR WITHIN HIS PARTY.
>> Sreenivasan: YUP.
>> BUT I DO THINK HE SET HIMSELF
UP FOR A POTENTIAL PROBLEM WITH
THAT STATEMENT ABOUT TESTIFYING
UNDER OATH.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
JEFF GREENFIELD, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> OKAY.
>> Sreenivasan: FROM 2009's
UPRISING IN IRAN TO THE ARAB
SPRING IN 2011 TO PROTESTS IN
THE UNITED STATES FOLLOWING THE
2016 ELECTION, SOCIAL MEDIA HAS
PLAYED A KEY ROLE IN ORGANIZING
AND MOBILIZING PEOPLE.
A SINGLE HASHTAG OR A FACEBOOK
POST CAN SPREAD THE WORD OF A
DEMONSTRATION FAST, AND HELP
DRAW A BIG CROWD.
BUT A NEW BOOK ARGUES THERE ARE
ALSO LIMITS TO HOW MUCH DIGITAL
TECHNOLOGY CAN ACCOMPLISH.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DAY AFTER
THE INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP, AN ESTIMATED 3.5
MILLION PEOPLE IN CITIES AROUND
THE COUNTRY AND THE WORLD TOOK
PART IN THE WOMEN'S MARCH,
PROTESTING THE TRUMP AGENDA IN
WHAT MAY HAVE BEEN THE LARGEST
COLLECTIVE PROTEST IN AMERICAN
HISTORY.
THE MARCH STARTED WITH A SINGLE
FACEBOOK POST AND GREW FROM
THERE.
IN RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA,
PROFESSOR ZEYNEP TUFEKCI WAS ONE
OF THOSE FACES IN THE CROWD.
>> MARCHES ARE GREAT.
THEY'RE REALLY EMPOWERING TO
PEOPLE.
BUT THE MAGIC ISN'T REALLY IN
THE STREETS BY ITSELF OR ANY
ONLINE ACTION; IT'S WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE ACTION WHEN YOU'RE
SAY, A LEGISLATOR, THINKING,
"HMM, IF THEY CAN MARCH WITH A
MILLION PEOPLE, WHAT ELSE CAN
THEY DO?"
>> Sreenivasan: TUFEKCI TEACHES
IN THE SCHOOL OF INFORMATION AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
CHAPEL HILL AND IS THE AUTHOR OF
THE NEW BOOK, "TWITTER AND TEAR
GAS: THE POWER AND FRAGILITY OF
NETWORKED PROTEST."
>> THE TWIST IN THE 21st CENTURY
SEEMS TO BE, SINCE WE CAN A DO
THINGS MUCH EASIER WITH DIGITAL
TECHNOLOGY, THEY DON'T
NECESSARILY HAVE THE SAME LEVEL
OF TEETH A SIMILAR ACTION, SAY,
A MARCH ON WASHINGTON, MIGHT
HAVE 30, 40, 50 YEARS AGO
BECAUSE THAT WAS A RESULT OF A
LONG PROCESS OF ORGANIZING.
>> Sreenivasan: THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON FOR JOBS AND FREEDOM
IN 1963 TOOK SIX MONTHS TO
ORGANIZE-- ARRANGING BUSES, BAG
LUNCHES, SINGERS AND SPEAKERS
FOR A QUARTER OF A MILLION WHO
ATTENDED.
TUFEKCI SAYS THE MARCH WAS A
SHOW OF STRENGTH FOR THE CIVIL
RIGHTS MOVEMENT BUILT OVER THE
PREVIOUS TEN YEARS.
>> IT PUSHED THE PEOPLE IN POWER
TO TAKE THE THREAT PRETTY
SERIOUSLY.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE YEAR LATER,
CONGRESS PASSED AND PRESIDENT
LYNDON JOHNSON SIGNED THE
LANDMARK CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF
1964.
MORE RECENTLY, TUFEKCI CITES THE
SUCCESS OF THE CONSERVATIVE "TEA
PARTY" MOVEMENT.
IT BEGAN IN THE SPRING OF 2009
WITH A VIRAL VIDEO...
>> THIS IS AMERICA.
HOW MANY OF YOU PEOPLE WANT TO
PAY FOR YOUR NEIGHBOR'S
MORTGAGE?
>> Sreenivasan: ...FOLLOWED BY
TAX DAY PROTESTS AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
BY THE NOVEMBER 2010 MIDTERM
ELECTIONS, THE MOVEMENT HAD A
MEASURABLE IMPACT.
>> THEY GOT 50-PLUS CONGRESS
PEOPLE.
THEY ESSENTIALLY BLOCKED
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S SECOND TERM
AGENDA, AND, ARGUABLY, THEY
ELECTED A PRESIDENT THAT THEY
LIKE.
SO, IT JUST SHOWS WHAT THE
PROTEST LEADS TO DEPENDS ON WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT.
>> Sreenivasan: IN 2011, ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE POLITICAL
SPECTRUM, ONE EMAIL, INSPIRED BY
THE ARAB SPRING PROTESTS,
STARTED "OCCUPY WALL STREET."
WITHIN WEEKS, IT WAS A MOVEMENT
WITH ENCAMPMENTS ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY.
BUT WHEN THE CAMPS CAME DOWN,
"OCCUPY" HAD LITTLE TO SHOW FOR
ITS AGENDA.
>> ON THE ONE HAND, IT WAS
REALLY POWERFUL IN BRINGING TO
PEOPLE'S ATTENTION SOMETHING
THAT WAS IMPORTANT: INEQUALITY.
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE ELECTORAL
RESULTS OR AT SORT OF THE
POLICY, IT WASN'T TAKEN AS A
THREAT.
AND THE PEOPLE IN POWER JUST
DIDN'T REALLY CHANGE THEIR WAY;
INEQUALITY HASN'T GONE DOWN, WE
DON'T HAVE ANY NEW LEGISLATION
THAT TRIES TO DAMPEN INEQUALITY.
SO, YOU CAN SORT OF SEE THAT THE
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY EMPOWERED
BOTH OF THEM, BUT THEY START
TAKING DIFFERENT TURNS RIGHT
AFTER, WITH REALLY DIFFERENT
CONSEQUENCES.
>> Sreenivasan: THE EASE OF
ORGANIZING AND MOBILIZING ONLINE
HAS LED TO A COMMON CRITIQUE.
FOR A WHILE, IT WAS JUST
CONSIDERED "SLACKTIVISM."
IS IT TOO EASY JUST TO CLICK A
LINK AND SIGNAL THAT I LIKE THIS
AND I DON'T LIKE THIS?
HOW DOES IT TRANSLATE INTO
ACTION?
>> I THINK IT'S A GREAT FIRST
STEP, SO THAT'S WHY I DON'T LIKE
THE TERM "SLACKTIVISM."
I DON'T THINK IT'S SLACKING IN
ANYTHING TO CLICK.
IT COULD BE A VERY POWERFUL
FIRST STEP.
EVEN IF IT STOPS THERE, IT'S GOT
POWER.
THE QUESTION IS, HOW DO YOU TAKE
THAT VERY WIDESPREAD BUT
RELATIVELY SHALLOW LEVEL OF
ENGAGEMENT AND GIVE PEOPLE WHO
CLEARLY WANTING TO DO SOMETHING
ELSE, RIGHT?
HOW DO YOU ORGANIZE IT SO THAT
MORE PEOPLE CAN STEP AND SAY,
"HERE ARE THINGS YOU COULD DO
COLLECTIVELY"?
AND BY DOING IT COLLECTIVELY
ALONG THE WAY, YOU'LL BUILD
THOSE IMPORTANT SKILLS OF
DECISION-MAKING TOGETHER AND
HANGING TOGETHER.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE ACTIVISTS
ADOPTED DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
TOOLS, GOVERNMENTS TRIED AND
FAILED TO DISRUPT THEM.
FOR INSTANCE, TUFEKCI POINTS TO
THE 2011 PROTESTS IN CAIRO'S
TAHRIR SQUARE.
>> THE GOVERNMENT JUST DIDN'T
KNOW WHAT TO DO, SO THEY JUST
SHUT OFF THE INTERNET, WHICH
COMPLETELY BACKFIRED.
IT WAS THE ABSOLUTE WRONG THING
TO DO IF YOU WERE A GOVERNMENT
BECAUSE IT JUST BRINGS
ATTENTION.
AND A LOT OF PARENTS WHO WERE
GETTING NEWS FROM THEIR KIDS IN
TAHRIR SQUARE, THE CELL PHONES
WERE ALSO CUT.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT GOVERNMENTS
HAVE ALSO LEARNED HOW TO USE
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY.
FIVE YEARS LATER, DURING AN
ATTEMPTED COUP IN TURKEY,
PRESIDENT RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN
RELIED ON DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY--
HIS iPHONE FACETIME APP-- TO
RALLY SUPPORTERS AGAINST
REBELLIOUS SOLDIERS.
>> IT WAS REALLY SORT OF AMAZING
TO WATCH THIS.
IT WAS JUST THIS LITTLE SCREEN,
BUT IT CONFIRMED TO THE COUNTRY
THAT HE WAS ALIVE.
THEY REALIZED VERY QUICKLY THAT
THE INTERNET AND DIGITAL
TECHNOLOGY WOULD BE ON THEIR
SIDE TO COUNTER THIS COUP.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU POINT OUT
HOW CRUCIAL TWITTER AND FACEBOOK
WERE IN GETTING PEOPLE TO COME
OUT TO THE STREET, BUT YOU ALSO
POINT OUT THAT THERE'S A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF POWER ON
THESE PLATFORMS NOW.
AND THE WAY THAT THE ALGORITHMS
ARE DESIGNED COULD ACTUALLY
DETERMINE THE SUCCESS OR FAILURE
OF A MOVEMENT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
FOR EXAMPLE, FACEBOOK USES AN
ALGORITHM, A COMPUTER PROGRAM,
TO CHOOSE HOW TO RANK WHAT IT
SHOWS YOU.
SO, IF YOU DON'T SEE SOMETHING
FROM SOMEONE, MAYBE FACEBOOK
ISN'T SHOWING IT TO YOU.
FOR A SOCIAL MOVEMENT, THAT'S
INCREDIBLY CONSEQUENTIAL.
>> Sreenivasan: IT WAS
CONSEQUENTIAL IN THE SUMMER OF
2014 AS PROTESTS ERUPTED ON THE
STREETS OF FERGUSON, MISSOURI,
FOLLOWING THE FATAL SHOOTING OF
AN UNARMED BLACK TEENAGER,
MICHAEL BROWN, BY A WHITE POLICE
OFFICER.
EARLY ON, TUFEKCI SAYS, THE
PROTESTS GOT A LOT OF ATTENTION
ON TWITTER BUT LESS SO ON
FACEBOOK BECAUSE OF ANOTHER
VIRAL SENSATION: THE ICE BUCKET
CHALLENGE.
>> AND I ACCEPT THE ALS ICE
BUCKET CHALLENGE!
>> FACEBOOK KEPT SHOWING ME THE
ICE BUCKET CHALLENGE.
EVEN IF IT WAS FROM WEEKS AGO,
IT KEPT SHOWING THE SAME THING.
YOU KNOW HOW YOU GO ON AND
THERE'S BABY PICTURE, BABY
PICTURE?
IT JUST SHOWS YOU THINGS THAT
ARE CUTE AND CUDDLY AND THAT GET
THE "LIKES," AND THAT'S HOW IT
OPERATES.
FOR A SOCIAL MOVEMENT TRYING TO
BREAK INTO THE PUBLIC SPHERE,
THAT COULD MEAN A FORM OF
ALGORITHMIC CENSORSHIP BECAUSE
THE ALGORITHM LIKES CERTAIN
THINGS AND DOESN'T LIKE CERTAIN
THINGS.
>> Sreenivasan: TUFEKCI SAYS THE
MOTIVATIONS OF SOCIAL MEDIA
COMPANIES AND SOCIAL MOVEMENTS
ARE NOT NECESSARILY ALIGNED.
>> IN THE END, IT'S A PLATFORM
THAT IS BASED ON DELIVERING YOU
ADS, AND THEY WANT TO SORT OF
KEEP YOU ON THERE WITH THINGS
THAT WILL KEEP YOU ON THERE.
AND ALL OF THEIR BUSINESS MODELS
AREN'T NECESSARILY IN THE
INTERESTS OF WHAT THE MOVEMENTS
ARE TRYING TO DO LONG TERM.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DOES THE
WOMEN'S MARCH OR BLACK LIVES
MATTER, HOW DO THEY SUSTAIN
THEMSELVES AND TURN THEMSELVES
INTO POWERFUL ACTORS THAT CAN BE
A THREAT TO WHOMEVER IT IS THAT
THEY WANT TO FORCE CHANGE
THROUGH?
>> RIGHT.
THE LESSON I TAKE FROM ALL OF MY
RESEARCH INTO THIS ISN'T STOP
USING DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES.
IT'S RECOGNIZE WHAT THEY'RE GOOD
FOR, AND USE THEM FULLY WHAT
THEY'RE GOOD FOR.
BUT REALLY RECOGNIZE WHAT
THEY'RE NOT GOOD FOR.
YOU CAN USE A HASHTAG TO GET
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE TO THE
STREET, BUT YOU CAN'T USE A
HASHTAG TO FIGURE OUT HOW DOES A
GROUP OF 100 PEOPLE IN ONE ZIP
CODE FIGURE OUT WHO IS GOING TO
RUN FOR SCHOOL BOARD AND WHO IS
GOING TO RUN FOR CONGRESS AND
HOW ARE WE GOING TO ORGANIZE.
IT'S GOING TO COME TO A HYBRID
MODEL WHERE WE USE TECH FOR WHAT
IT'S GOOD FOR, BUT NOT BE
BLINDED BY THE POWER IT GIVES US
IN SOME AREAS AND IGNORE THAT
IT'S ACTUALLY WEAKENING US IN
OTHER AREAS BY HELPING US SCALE
UP ALMOST TOO FAST.
YOU KNOW, YOU ARE GOING FROM 0
TO 100 MILES IN JUST A MONTH OR
TWO; YOU NEED A BETTER STEERING
WHEEL THAN A FACEBOOK GROUP.
>> Sreenivasan: A NEW STUDY
SUGGESTS THOUSANDS OF VACANT
LOTS IN DETROIT HAVE ALLOWED
BUMBLEBEES TO FLOURISH.
LEARN MORE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN ISRAEL
CAPTURED ADOLF EICHMANN IN 1960,
ONE OF THE KEY ARCHITECTS OF THE
NAZI GERMANY HOLOCAUST OF
EUROPEAN JEWS WAS BROUGHT TO
JUSTICE.
MOST OF THE EVIDENCE USED IN
EICHMANN'S LANDMARK TRIAL WAS
CLASSIFIED UNTIL A FEW YEARS
AGO.
THAT'S WHEN A FORMER ISRAELI
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIAL CURATED
ARTIFACTS INTO AN EXHIBIT THAT'S
PART HISTORY AND PART SPY STORY.
IT'S SCHEDULED TO COME TO NEW
YORK NEXT MONTH, AND THEN GO TO
TAMPA.
RIGHT NOW IT'S ON DISPLAY IN
ILLINOIS, WHERE CORRESPONDENT
EDDIE ARUZZA, FROM PBS STATION
WTTW, FILED THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: THE NUMBER FOREVER
ETCHED INTO HIS ARM HAS FADED
SLIGHTLY.
BUT DAVID DRAGON'S MEMORIES OF
WHERE HE GOT IT ARE STILL FRESH.
>> I WAS BEATEN UP AND THEY TOOK
ME TO JAIL.
>> Reporter: THE 94-YEAR-OLD
SURVIVOR OF THE AUSCHWITZ-
BIRKENAU CONCENTRATION CAMP
TALKS OF HIS EXPERIENCE AS HE
TOURS A NEW EXHIBIT ABOUT THE
CAPTURE OF ONE OF THE KEY
ARCHITECTS OF THE HOLOCAUST:
ADOLF EICHMANN.
DAVID DRAGON BELIEVES HE
ENCOUNTERED EICHMANN AT
BIRKENAU.
>> WHEN THEY CAUGHT ME WITH SOME
BREAD THEY TOOK ME IN A ROOM AND
THERE WERE ABOUT 10-15 HIGH S.S.
MEN; I THINK HE WAS THERE, TOO.
>> WHEN EICHMANN ENTERED A
JERUSALEM COURTROOM IN THE
SPRING OF 1961, IT WAS THE
CULMINATION OF YEARS OF ATTEMPTS
BY THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT TO
FIND HIM AND BRING HIM TO
JUSTICE.
THE BACKSTORY THAT LED TO THAT
MOMENT IS NOW ON VIVID DISPLAY
AT THE ILLINOIS HOLOCAUST MUSEUM
IN SKOKIE.
TITLED "OPERATION FINALE," THE
EXHIBIT BRINGS TOGETHER ORIGINAL
ARTIFACTS THAT WERE ONLY
RECENTLY DE-CLASSIFIED BY THE
ISRAELI GOVERNMENT AND CURATED
INTO AN IMMERSIVE EXPERIENCE BY
FORMER ISRAELI INTELLIGENCE
OFFICER, AVNER AVRAHAM.
>> SIX YEARS AGO, I WAS A MOSSAD
EMPLOYEE AND I FOUND SOME BOXES
WITH VERY RARE STUFF FROM THE
OPERATION FINALE, THE CAPTURE OF
ADOLF EICHMANN AND I DECIDED TO
PUT A SMALL EXHIBITION IN THE
MOSSAD HEADQUARTER.
>> Reporter: MOSSAD IS ISRAEL'S
EQUIVALENT OF THE C.I.A. AND IN
THE LATE 1950s MOSSAD WAS
TIPPED OFF TO A LOVE STORY
INVOLVING EICHMANN'S SON, KLAUS,
AND THIS TEENAGE GIRL, SYLVIA
HERMANN.
SYLVIA'S FATHER, A GERMAN JEW,
HAD FLED TO ARGENTINA WITH THE
RISE OF THE NAZIS.
EICHMANN AND HIS FAMILY ALSO
MADE THEIR WAY TO BUENOS AIRES
AFTER WORLD WAR II, EVADING
ALLIED CAPTURE.
BUT WHEN SYLVIA'S FATHER
RECOGNIZED THE LAST NAME OF THE
BOY SHE WAS DATING, HE NOTIFIED
ISRAELI OFFICIALS.
A MOSSAD AGENT POSING AS A
TOURIST, LATER ARRIVED IN
ARGENTINA WITH THIS LEICA CAMERA
AND SURREPTITIOUSLY TOOK
PICTURES OF THE MAN GOING BY THE
ALIAS RICARDO KLEMENT.
>> THEY SENT THESE PICTURES TO
ISRAEL TOGETHER WITH EICHMANN
PICTURES FROM SS FILE THAT THE
MOSSAD GOT, PICTURES FROM THE
WAR.
AND THE ISRAELI POLICE
LABORATORIES COMPARED THE
PICTURES AND FIND OUT THIS IS
PROBABLY THE SAME MAN IF YOU
LOOK AT THE SHAPE OF HIS LEFT
EAR.
>> Reporter: FROM THERE,
OPERATION FINALE TOOK OFF.
WITH ARGENTINA HAVING BECOME A
HAVEN FOR FORMER NAZIS AND THE
GOVERNMENT NOT HONORING
EXTRADITION REQUESTS, ISRAEL'S
PRIME MINISTER AT THE TIME DAVID
BEN-GURION APPROVED A
CLANDESTINE MISSION TO TRY TO
CAPTURE EICHMANN.
12 MOSSAD AGENTS TRAVELED TO THE
SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY FROM
EUROPE ON SEPARATE COMMERCIAL
FLIGHTS TO TRY TO AVOID
SUSPICION.
THESE ARE THEIR AIRLINE TICKETS.
EICHMANN WAS CAPTURED ON MAY 11,
1960.
HE WAS TAKEN TO A SAFE HOUSE
WHERE THE POSSESSIONS HE WAS
CARRYING AT THE TIME ARE PART OF
THE DISPLAY.
HE ALSO HAD IDENTIFICATION WITH
THE ALIAS HE HAD TAKEN ON IN
ARGENTINA, RICARDO KLEMENT.
BUT AS AGENTS INTERROGATED HIM,
EICHMANN EVENTUALLY TRIPPED
HIMSELF UP.
>> THEY START ASKING HIM GENERAL
QUESTIONS FROM YOUR AGE, THE
SIZE OF YOUR SHOES AND
IMMEDIATELY, WHAT IS YOUR NUMBER
OF THE S.S., THE S.S. FILE AND
HE SAID EXACTLY THE EICHMANN
NUMBER AND HE UNDERSTOOD HE MADE
A HUGE MISTAKE AND HE ASKED FOR
A GLASS OF RED WINE.
>> Reporter: EICHMANN WAS
SMUGGLED OUT OF ARGENTINA ON THE
ONLY ISRAELI AIRLINE EL AL
FLIGHT TO EVER TRAVEL TO THAT
COUNTRY.
ADOLF EICHMANN'S TRIAL BEGAN ON
APRIL 11, 1961 IN A CONVERTED
THEATER IN JERUSALEM AND THE
CENTERPIECE OF THIS EXHIBIT IS
THE ACTUAL BULLET PROOF BOOTH
USED BY EICHMANN ALONG WITH THE
THREE ORIGINAL CHAIRS THAT HE
AND TWO SECURITY GUARDS SAT IN.
VISITORS TO THE EXHIBIT CAN GET
A SENSE OF THE INTENSITY OF THE
TRIAL.
A TRIPTYCH OF VIDEO SCREENS
SURROUND EICHMANN'S BOOTH
SHOWING VIDEOS OF THE AUDIENCE,
THE ACCUSED AND SOME OF THE MORE
THAN 100 HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS WHO
TESTIFIED.
>> AND THE TRIAL CHANGED THE
LIFE IN ISRAEL BECAUSE PEOPLE
START TALKING ABOUT THE
HOLOCAUST AND PEOPLE START
DEALING WITH THIS.
>> Reporter: EICHMANN WAS FOUND
GUILTY OF CRIMES AGAINST
HUMANITY AND EXECUTED IN MAY OF
1962.
HIS ASHES WERE SCATTERED IN THE
MEDITERRANEAN SEA.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY, THE
ORIGINAL BATMAN ON 1960's
TELEVISION, ACTOR ADAM WEST HAS
DIED IN LOS ANGELES FROM
LEUKEMIA.
WITH A TONGUE-IN-CHEEK APPROACH,
WEST PLAYED THE CAPED CRUSADER
AND HIS ALTER EGO, BRUCE WAYNE,
FOR THREE SEASONS STARTING IN
1966 AND FOREVER IN RERUNS.
WEST ONCE SAID, TO HIM, "BATMAN"
HAD MEANT "MONEY" BUT HAD ALSO
TYPECAST HIM AND PREVENTED HIM
FROM GETTING OTHER GOOD ROLES.
ADAM WEST WAS 88 YEARS OLD.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.